This geometry course, part of the COLLEGE PREPARATORY MATHEMATICS (CPM) high school curriculum program, presents an integrated algebra/geometry approach to geometric principles.  This second year course aims to have students take an active role in learning as they form conjectures, develop proofs, and sharpen their graphing, problem solving, and visualizing skills.  According to the authors, topic selection reflects the impact of graphing calculators on what students need to learn and on how discovery and exploration can be used to teach mathematics.  The entire four-year curriculum program, created by a group of teachers and two university professors, emphasizes conceptual understanding and problem solving skills with units developed around real-life themes.  Based on the belief that concept mastery requires time, the program presents spiraled practice of the main course concepts throughout the year and emphasizes supportive group work for students.  The creation of individual student notebooks and the teacher's role as guide are other significant features of the program.  In a sample lesson from a chapter that explores probability in terms of area of a region, students spend two days investigating a problem called the Poison Weed.  The lesson's goals are to develop students' facility with breaking problems into subproblems and to apply their knowledge of trigonometry and probability.  The lesson culminates in a challenging multiple-step problem involving the grazing habits of a cow named Zoe, given the fact that a poison weed is located in her grazing region.  Students know the shape and dimensions of a barn to which Zoe is tethered with a 30-foot rope and that Zoe never eats the same patch of grass twice.  They first find the area of  Zoe's irregular grazing region.  Based on a calculation of how many bites of food Zoe takes per day, students then determine the probability that Zoe will eat the poison weed during a four-week period.  For each lesson, the teacher's edition includes a detailed explanation of the mathematics involved along with suggestions for classroom organization.  Also found are ideas for establishing and using cooperative learning groups, assessment materials including group test questions, a parent's guide, and solutions to all problems.  Test resources and alternative assessment materials are included on a disk.  The student editions of the series are also available in Spanish.  (Author/JRS).