Smith is the only Women's college to have an engineering program. Here are some descriptions of their recently accredited program: "There's never been a more important or exciting time to become an engineer - especially for women. For more than 130 years, everything at Smith has been geared to women's success. We've had a tradition of excellence in the sciences for decades; now, we are being recognized for engineering. There are no stereotypes here about what you should or can accomplish. We expect you to succeed, and we offer an intense, resource-rich environment in which to learn, on your own and in a variety of team projects. Smith's engineering program is embedded in an outstanding liberal arts curriculum. You have access to Smith's science programs; an extensive choice of liberal arts courses; the opportunity to study abroad as an engineer; a dynamic faculty of professionals, half of whom are women; and access to a network of successful Smith women in every profession, all over the world. Rather than slot you into a single field, Smith offers a B.S. in engineering science. We focus on the fundamentals of all the engineering disciplines, so you can choose your area of specialization once you're familiar with the scope of engineering - and where you want to be. Social relevance and responsibility are part of everything we teach because we are committed to sustainability as essential to our common future. From the first day, our students learn how engineering science principles are applied to design and practice. You'll have the opportunity to develop your own Praxis summer internship, spending time in state-of-the-practice environments at major corporations, laboratories and government agencies. Our faculty involve students at all levels in meaningful research projects. In your senior year, you and your team, together with a professional sponsor, will develop and complete a final design project that unites engineering science and practice with broad-based societal issues."