The Integrated Teaching and Learning Program at the University of Colorado at Boulder is a nationally recognized engineering education leader. In 1997, Hewlett-Packard named it "one of the finer teaching environments on the planet." Using interdisciplinary, hands-on approaches and incorporating leading-edge technology, engineering students at CU-Boulder gain the understanding and confidence to succeed. The Program reflects the contemporary world of professional engineering by supporting students, working in teams on real-world projects, to learn the open-ended problem-solving skills critical to their career paths. Program components include first-year design and build courses, an invention and innovation sequence, senior design projects, and design expos. The Program is supported by the ITL Laboratory - a three-story, 34,000 square foot learning facility that provides students with a flexible, visible learning environment. The ITL Laboratory is unlike any other educational facility in the world. Its curriculum-driven design supports a variety of learning styles and features first-year design studios, an active-learning center, a computer network integrating all experimental equipment throughout two large, open laboratory plazas, fabrication and media shacks, group work areas, and student-centered, technology-rich electronics and manufacturing centers. The ITL Laboratory itself is an integral part of the undergraduate engineering curriculum, enabling students to monitor the building's structural, electrical and mechanical systems through exposed building systems and a network of embedded sensors. A collection of interactive exhibits and kinetic sculptures capture the interest of budding engineers of all ages. Annually, thousands of K-12 students and teachers visit the ITL Laboratory, many to participate in hands-on, ears-on and minds-on K-12 engineering camps, classes and workshops. The ITL Program provides summer engineering workshops and classes to extend hands-on learning to K-12 teachers and students, as part of its integrated K-16 engineering program. It also leads creation of the TeachEngineering.org digital library collection of K-12 curricula for teaching science and math in an engineering context.

The ITL Program was named a Program of Excellence by the Colorado Commission on Higher Education, and one of three finalists for Boeing's Outstanding Educator Award in 1996 and 1997. In 2000, it received the inaugural Recognition Award from the Corporate and Foundation Alliance, a group of 35 engineering and technology corporations and foundations working with the National Science Foundation to recognize the country's top undergraduate science, math, engineering and technology educational programs. The ITL Program won the 2005-06 Diversity Service Recognition Award from the CU-Boulder Chancellor's Advisory Committee on Minority Affairs. ITL was selected for its commitment to creating a more diverse student population at CU-Boulder and for enriching the exposure of K-12 students to engineering, reaching out in particular to students of color, young women, and first-generation college-bound students.