"Managers with good business skills and solid technical backgrounds have a broad variety of jobs from which they can choose. In the past, most managers who work at the interface of technology and business designed their own educational programs because there was no single degree program that met their needs. The University of Arizona College of Engineering is pleased to offer a Bachelor of Science in Engineering Management degree program that combines managerial and engineering classes to prepare graduates for positions that require broader skills and capabilities than those provided by either a business or a traditional engineering degree alone.

Since nearly every company involved in manufacturing, public utilities, transportation, construction, processing, and mining uses technical principles and processes, and engineering and consulting firms address problems that involve both technical and economic issues, University of Arizona's Engineering Management program prepares students for management positions in these technology-based companies. The degree is flexible enough to allow a student to concentrate his or her technical electives on a particular industry or technology of interest to him or her. The managerial courses cover all of the material needed to understand and function within the business environment, and yet the degree is a fully ABET-accredited engineering degree. The result is a wide variety of career opportunities available to the graduate.

The 18 credits of technical electives that are a part of the Engineering Management curriculum can be used to obtain a formal minor in one of the other engineering fields or can be tailored to individual interests. Currently or recently, students in the program have pursued areas of concentration described in the section on technical areas of concentration below.

Some students may choose to take an additional year (30 credits) and earn a double degree in Engineering Management and another Engineering field. A student who wishes to do this may find that instead of two B.S. degrees, and if their grade-point average is 3.0 or better in the last 60 credits earned, they may be eligible to apply to graduate school after they complete the B.S. Engineering Management degree and earn an M.S. in the engineering field they choose. Proper selection of the 18 credits of technical electives will usually qualify the student for M.S. study with no remedial course work required, and the M.S. degree requires the same 30 credits of additional work beyond the B.S. degree."