"The School of Operations Research and Industrial Engineering offers a wide range of academic programsâ??from traditional undergraduate degrees to master of engineering and doctoral programs of study.  The M.Eng. degree emphasizes professional preparation.  ORIE's Ph.D. program has a strong research orientation. Masters: A full-time, professionally oriented program that builds on traditional math, scientific, computational, and engineering skills by focusing on the practical application of these skills in the field of Operations Research. The program includes theoretical and applied courses in Operations Research and related disciplines. It is centered around a team-based design project for a real client, with the project presentation and report serving in lieu of a research thesis. Within the program, students can specialize in OR applications in manufacturing, finance, information technology, marketing, operations management, or systems engineering, or can pursue a general approach to Operations Research applications. The program can be completed in two or three semesters. Ph.D. Program:

A rigorous academic program demanding independent investigation and achievement and characterized by original scholarly work of the highest caliber.  Doctoral graduates are prepared for academic teaching and research positions and placement in the private sector.

Cornell introduced its first courses in Operations Research in 1955â??50 years agoâ??and its first Industrial Engineering courses in 1895â??over 100 years ago. Since that time, the School of Operations Research and Industrial Engineering has made notable contributions and advances to the field.
 animated graph

Dissertation research by Yuriy Zinchenko, Ph.D., 2005

We are one of the worldâ??s pre-eminent Schools of Operations Researchâ??highly respected for the research and academic investigation conducted here and the role our work plays in influencing and seeding ideas in the academic community to reach new understanding.  A leader in advancing and influencing the decision and management sciences, the School provides an unparalleled educational and research environment."