"Biomedical Engineering (BME) has emerged as one of the most exciting interdisciplinary research fields in modern science. Biomedical engineers apply modern approaches from the experimental life sciences in conjunction with theoretical and computational methods from the disciplines of engineering, mathematics and computer science to the solution of biomedical problems of fundamental importance. The Biomedical Engineering Graduate Program of the Johns Hopkins University is designed to train engineers to work at the cutting edge of this exciting discipline.

The cornerstone of the Program is our belief in the importance of in-depth training of students in both life sciences and modern engineering, mathematics and computer science and in the conduct of original research leading to the doctoral dissertation. In-depth training in life sciences is achieved in one of two ways. First, incoming PhD students may enroll in the first year basic sciences curriculum of the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. This is a unique and intensive curriculum covering a broad range of topics including molecules and cells, human anatomy, immunology, physiology and neuroscience. Students choosing this option typically devote their entire first academic year to these courses. This curriculum is an excellent way to build a broad and solid foundation in the life sciences. Second, students may elect alternative life sciences curricula. These curricula have been carefully designed to provide training in areas of the life sciences that are appropriate to each of the programâ??s research areas. This option is of particular value to students who enter the program having a strong background in the life sciences. In-depth training in engineering, mathematics and computer science is achieved through elective courses, with choice of electives reflecting the research interests of each student. Detailed curricula have been developed in each of the programâ??s research areas to assist students in making these choices."