"The Department of Aerospace Engineering provides students with a strong background in engineering and applied science while placing emphasis on aircraft and spaceflight engineering.  The department's objective is to provide education, research, and public service in aerospace sciences and engineering of the highest possible quality to meet the needs of the State of Illinois and the nation as a whole.  We wish to instill in students the knowledge, values, and leadership ability in engineering that will prepare them for lifetimes of continued learning and growth in the profession and in a broad spectrum of other fields.
Research

The department's research program aims at maintaining a leadership position in the rapidly changing field of aerospace and in producing aerospace engineers with a solid foundation and a creative professional approach.  The future success of our graduate program depends upon its ability to construct a curricular experience that guarantees both a student's depth and breadth while retaining the strong student-advisor relationship that is important to our research.  Our graduates must be strong in at least one core discipline and very capable in several related areas.  The breadth of engineering research today demands a much more flexible engineer than in the past.  Tomorrow's graduates must be competent in their chosen specialty and also be prepared to integrate their experience with engineers from any number of disciplines.

Our future leaders in research and technology will need to be far more adept at team research, systems integration, and important systems requirements in seemingly unrelated areas.  Recognition of the computer, networking, and communications revolution has to be present in any modern curriculum.  The interdisciplinary nature of aerospace engineering and the broad credentials of the College of Engineering make it certain that contributions from related mechanical sciences and electrical and computer engineering are essential components of an aerospace career.  Some of the broader engineering specialties, such as manufacturing or simulation will become our research topics in the future, and we must provide the necessary flexibility in our program to accommodate non-traditional engineering training.  Courses will be structured and restructured as needed to accommodate these specialized needs."